provide "how we work" documentation of our conventions (#123)
folio-org/stripes: doc/how-we-work/app-dev-existing.md

## How to develop exisiting applications and libraries

For local development of UI apps and libraries, use a yarn or npm workspace containing git clones of a platform and the apps where you will make commits. Although dependency resolution in a workspace is different than in production, it provides the easiest development experience and makes it easiest for other devs to help you if you run into trouble.

Most stripes modules support hot-module reloading (changes you make in your editor are immediately reflected in the running app).

### TL;DR

> * Create a yarn workspace containing git-clones of `platform-core#snapshot` and the modules where you will make commits. It is generally not necessary to clone any `stripes-*` libraries in your platform. Configure the platform to use a publicly available okapi instance. Install dependencies using the `npm-folioci` (development) registry and launch stripes in a browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a yarn workspace containing git-clones of `platform-core#snapshot` and the modules where you will make commits. It's not necessary to clone any `stripes-*` libraries in your platform unless you need to make changes to them as well. Configure the platform to use a publicly available okapi instance. Install dependencies using the `npm-folioci` (development) registry and launch stripes in a browser:
```
I'd try to avoid the "generally" weasel word here since we know exactly when you should and should not check out stripes repos.

```

> cat > package.json <<EOT

Reviewer: Are we making a conscious decision here to discourage use of `stripes workspace` in favour of doing things by hand?

Author: I intended to write a "stripes-cli" version to get rolling fast and a "manual" version to explain what actually happens. Probably I should write the `stripes-cli` version and put it first. 

(Honestly, I never use `stripes-cli` for this because I always just copy a `package.json` out of a different workspace, but, whatever.)

Reviewer: I wonder whether it'd lower confusion - "Which doc do I use? I want to understand things but do I _need_ to?" - whether we just footnoted the stripes-cli commands with explanations of what's happening under the covers.

Reviewer 2: Upvote for using the CLI since it accomplishes this goal and will work regardless of OS (`cat` won't work on Windows for example). Initially it's less verbose to explain, but I agree with Mark that explaining what happens under the covers (or linking to that explanation) will be helpful for people to understand what's happening.

Author: Yeah, I totally get it. Part of the challenge here is that this requires a global install of `stripes-cli`, which is something we explicitly recommend against when doing stuff within a workspace/within a cloned repo.

{
  "private": true,
  "workspaces": [
      "*"
  ]
}
EOT

cat > .npmrc <<EOT
@folio:registry = "https://repository.folio.org/repository/npm-folioci/"
EOT

git clone git@github.com:folio-org/platform-core.git
git -C platform-core checkout snapshot
cat platform-core/stripes.config.js | sed -E 's/http:\/\/localhost:9130/https:\/\/folio-testing-okapi.dev.folio.org/g' > platform-core/stripes.config.js.local
yarn
cd platform-core
yarn local &
open http://localhost:3000

```

### Change the apps available for local development

Clone apps in the top-level workspace, i.e. as _siblings_ to `platform-core`, then install their dependencies by running `yarn` in the _workspace_:
```
cd path/to/your/workspace
git clone git@github.com:folio-org/ui-app.git
yarn
```
If the app is not already part of the platform, add it to the platform's `stripes.config.js.local` `modules` list.

### Notes

> * Apps generally support hot-module reloading so changes you make in a text editor are immediately reflected in the browser. Translations, however, are only parsed on startup. If you add or change a translation, you must completely rebuild the bundle (^c in the platform, then `yarn local`).

Reviewer: You mention this on line 5. I think it probably makes sense to keep it here rather than in that opening section.

> * To test new permissions, you must first publish them to the okapi environment you are running against. Use curl or Postman to create a POST request to `/perms/permissions`. This happens automatically as part of the build process for the reference environments.

Reviewer: Not suggesting `stripes-cli`?

> * To change the order of apps in the UI, change their order in the `stripes.config.js.local` `modules` object. Yes, its an object, but key-order is stable in JS, unlike Perl.

Reviewer: So yes, this is a nit, but given that this is something that trips up people new to JS, I don't like the notion of saying key-order is stable in JS. [Assuming stability in an object is quite risky](https://stackoverflow.com/a/38218582).

Just because Chrome does it one way doesn't mean it's the standard and doesn't mean we should advocate for it to be the standard. 🙃

* If you see errors like this:
```

> Error: Error: No QueryClient set, use QueryClientProvider to set one

Reviewer: This can also occur with Final Form: `Error: useField must be used inside of a <Form>`

Author: Thanks; it's helpful to have other examples. I'll add this.
